Fixes #755. Tabular Feature Attribution Tutorial. (#801)
PAIR-code/lit: website/src/tutorials/tab-feat-attr.md

4. The **facets button** and **show attributions for selection checkbox** enable
   conditionally running the Kernel SHAP interpreter over subsets of the data.
   We will get into the specifics of this with an example later on in this
   tutorial.

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-1.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-2.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

#### **A Simple Use Case : Feature Attribution for 10 samples**

To get started with the module, we set sample size to a small value, 10, and
start the SHAP computation with heatmap enabled.

{% include partials/info-box title: 'Filtering out incomplete data points',
  text: "Kernel SHAP computes feature importance relative to a pseudo-random
  sample of the dataset. The sample size is set with the slider, and the samples
  are drawn from either the current selection (i.e., a subset of the data that
  were manually selected or are included as part of a slice) or the entire
  dataset. When sampling from the current selection, the sample size can have
  interesting edge cases:

> - If the sample size is 0, LIT samples the “sample size” number of data points from the entire dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the selection is empty, LIT samples the “sample size” number of data points from the entire dataset.
```

> - If the sample size is larger than the selection, then LIT computes SHAP for the entire selection and only that selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the sample size is zero or larger than the selection, then LIT computes SHAP for the entire selection and only that selection.
```

- If sample size is smaller than the selection, then LIT samples the “sample size” number of data points from the selected inputs."%}

Enabling the heatmap provides a visual indicator of the polarity and strength of
a feature’s influence. A reddish hue indicates negative attribution for that
particular feature and a bluish hue indicates positive attribution. The deeper
the color the stronger its influence on the predictions.

> {% include partials/info-box title: 'Interpreting salience polarity',
>   text: "Intuitively, a positive influence score (attribution) for a training
> example means that if this example was removed from the training dataset, we
> expect a drop in model confidence in predictions on the test set. Similarly,
> a negative score would correspond to an increase in the model's confidence
> in the prediction."%}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include partials/info-box title: 'Interpreting salience polarity',
  text: "Salience is always relative to the model’s prediction of one class.
Intuitively, a positive attribution score for a feature of an example means that
 if this feature was removed we
expect a drop in model confidence in the prediction of this class. Similarly,
removing a feature with a negative score would correspond to an increase in
the model's confidence in the prediction of this class."%}
```

Updated to match the same semantics as the salience maps tutorial.

SHAP values are computed per feature per example, from which LIT computes the

> mean, min, median, and max values from the analyzed examples. The min and max

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mean, min, median, and max feature values across the examples. The min and max
```

values can be used to spot any outliers during analysis. The difference between
the mean and the median can be used to gain more insights about the
distribution. All of this enables statistical comparisons and will be enhanced
in future releases of LIT with newer features like histograms to be included
just for this purpose.

Each of the columns in the table can be sorted using the up (ascending) or down
(descending) arrow symbols in the column headers. The table is sorted in
ascending alphabetical order of input feature names (field) by default. If there
are many features in a dataset this space will get crowded, so LIT offers a

> search button for each of the columns to look up a particular feature or value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
filter button for each of the columns to look up a particular feature or value
```

directly.

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-3.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-4.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-5.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

> #### **Faceting & Binning of numerical features**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **Faceting & Binning of Features**
```

Categorical and boolean features do not have controllable binning behavior. A
bin is created for each label in their vocabulary.

A facet is a unique permutation of the bin combinations from the enabled
features. LIT supports as many as 100 facets (aka bins). An indicator in the
faceting config dialog lets you know how many would be created given the current
settings.

Faceting is not supported for selections, meaning that if you already have a
selection of elements (let’s say 10 penguins), then facets won’t split it
further.

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-7.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-8.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-9.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-10.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

### **Side-by-side comparison : Salience Maps Vs Tabular Feature Attribution**

The Feature Attribution module works well in conjunction with other modules. In
particular, we are going to look at the Salience Maps module which allows us to

> enhance our analysis. Salience Maps work on one data point at a time whereas we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enhance our analysis. Salience Maps work on one data point at a time, whereas we
```

{% include partials/info-box title: 'Slightly different color scales',
  text: "The color scales are slightly different between the salience maps
  module and the tabular feature attribution module. Salience maps use a
  gamma-adjusted color scale to make values more prominent."%}

#### **One random data point**

In this example, a random data point is chosen using the select random button in
the top right corner and the unselected data points are hidden in the Data
Table. After running both the salience maps module and the feature attribution
module for the selected point, we can see that the values in the mean column of
Tabular SHAP output match the saliency scores exactly. Also, another cool but
obvious thing to note is that the mean, min, median and max values are all the
same when a single data point is selected.

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-11.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

#### **A slice of 5 random data points**

LIT uses a [complex selection model](https://github.com/PAIR-code/lit/blob/main/documentation/ui_guide.md#datapoint-selections)
and different modules react to it differently. Salience Maps only care about the

> primary selection (the data point highlighted deep in the data table) in a slice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
primary selection (the data point highlighted in a deep cyan hue in the data table) in a slice
```

of elements, whereas Feature Attribution uses the entire list of selected
elements.

{% include partials/info-box title: 'Using Salience Maps to support Tabular Feature Attribution',
  text: "Changing primary selection reruns SHAP in the Salience Maps module but
  not in Tabular Feature Attribution. So, we can effectively toggle through the
  items in our selection one-by-one and see how they compare to the mean values
  in the Feature Attribution module. Another thing to note is that the Salience
  Maps module supports comparison between a pinned datapoint and the primary
  selection, so we can do the above comparisons in a pair-wise manner as
  well."%}

As we can see in this example, where we run both modules on a slice of 5
elements, the Salience Maps module is only providing its output for the primary
selection (data point 0), whereas the Tabular Feature Attribution module is
providing values for the entire selection by enabling the checkbox of “Show

> attributions for selection”. This is interesting because we can use the salience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attributions for selection”. This allows us to use the salience
```

---
title: Tabular Feature Attribution
layout: layouts/tutorial.liquid

hero-image: /assets/images/sample-banner.png
hero-title: "Tabular Feature Attribution"
hero-copy: "Learn how to use the Tabular Feature Attribution module in LIT."

bc-anchor-category: "analysis"
bc-category-title: "Analysis"
bc-title: "Tabular Feature Attribution"

time: "15 minutes"
takeaways: "Learn how to use the Kernel SHAP based Tabular Feature Attribution module in LIT."
---

## Tabular Feature Attribution

{% include partials/link-out link: "../../demos/penguins.html", text: "Explore this demo yourself." %}

Or, run your own with [`examples/penguin_demo.py`](https://github.com/PAIR-code/lit/blob/main/lit_nlp/examples/penguin_demo.py)

> LIT supports many techniques like salience maps and counterfactual generators for text data. But what if you have a tabular dataset? You might want to find out which data features are most relevant in the model’s predictions. LIT provides a Feature Attribution module, which is currently supported for [tabular datasets](https://github.com/PAIR-code/lit/wiki/components.md#tabular-data) only, to enable important feature identification. This tutorial provides a walkthrough for this module within LIT, on the [Palmer Penguins dataset](https://allisonhorst.github.io/palmerpenguins/).

Reviewer 2: "identification of important features" reads better than "import feature identification"

2. The **prediction key** selects the model output value for which influence is computed. Since the penguin mode only predicts one feature, species, this is set to species and cannot be changed. If a model can predict multiple values in different fields, for example predicting species and island or species and sex, then you could change which output field to explain before clicking Apply.
3. The **heatmap toggle** can be enabled to color code the SHAP values.
4. The **facets button** and **show attributions for selection checkbox** enable
   conditionally running the Kernel SHAP interpreter over subsets of the data.
   We will get into the specifics of this with an example later on in this
   tutorial.

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-1.png',

>   caption: 'TODO'%}

Reviewer 2: be sure to add captions

Reviewer: Leaving captions as TODOs intentionally as we're going to 1) convert some images to GIFs and need to capture the narrative of those GIFs, and 2) annotate the static images using the typical LIT callout styles and will need to write the captions with those annotations in mind.

{% include partials/inset-image image: '/assets/images/tab-feat-attr-image-2.png',
  caption: 'TODO'%}

#### **A Simple Use Case : Feature Attribution for 10 samples**

To get started with the module, we set sample size to a small value, 10, and
start the SHAP computation with heatmap enabled.

> {% include partials/info-box title: 'Filtering out incomplete data points',

Reviewer 2: update title
